Note:	This program has no attribution for authorship.  I modified it
	to deal with binary files.

	Bob Supnik
	
Description:

	backup is a program that can list the contents of, and extract
	files from a TOPS-10 backup tape.  The command syntax is some-
	what resembling that of tar.  The command

		backup -t[v][f tape]

	lists the contents of 'tape'.  The command

		backup -x[cdimv8][f tape] file1 file2 ...

	extracts all files that match either of the file arguments given.
	
	The names used for the created files will be the canonical names
	from the tape, unless -d or -i are in effect.  The canonical name
	is a string of the format: device.p_pn.sfd1.sfd2..file.ext

Arguments:

	'tape' is the name of a tape drive, the name of a file or the
	single character '-', meaning stdin.  If omitted, the environment
	variable TAPE will be consulted.


	If the "tape" argument is actually a file, which was captured
	from a tape (say, on a different machine).  The "known good" way 
	to capture the contents of the tape is to use the unix utility
	"dd", and a command line something like this:

	   dd if=/dev/rmt0 of=data ibs=2720 obs=2720 conv=block

	the key thing is that this program expects a fixed block size of
	2720 bytes.  If the tape actually has some other format, this 
	program probably won't succeed.  You can use the unix utility "tcopy"
	to inspect the contents of the tape.

	   Here's the tcopy output from a good tape:

	   tcopy /dev/rmt0 
	   file 0: block size 2720: 9917 records
	   file 0: eof after 9917 records: 26974240 bytes
	   eot
	   total length: 26974240 bytes


	File arguments are either any substring of the canonical name
	printed with 'backup -t ...', or a hash mark, and the number
	of the file on the tape, or "*" to simply extract all the files.

Options:

   -b   Extract files in binary format.  The files on tape have one
	36b word stored in five 8b frames, as specified in PDP-10
	"core dump" mode.  The extracted files have one 36b word
	stored, right justified, on one little-endian 64b word, as
	expected by the simh simulators.

   -c	The 'tape' is a disk file, in copytape format.

   -d	Create a directory structure when restoring, giving files named
	device:p_pn/sfd1/sfd2/file.ext, instead of the flat name space
	resulting from using the canonical names.

   -f	The disk image file is the next argument.

   -i	Ignore device and directory info when building output file names.

   -m	The disk image file has a 4 byte header specifying density, which
	must be ignored.

   -v	Verbose.  Does the obvious.  -vv does even more.

   -8	Tops-10 file was in eight-bit mode.


Bugs:

	We don't handle multiple tape savesets any good.

	We don't check for bad format of input.

	We don't handle checksums, or repeated blocks any good.



